there's a Norwegian proverb that says a
hero is one who knows how to hang on for
one minute longer that's often the
difference between those who make it and
those who don't are the people that
stick with it long enough for success to
present itself creating success is like
a wrestling match and at the end of the
day it's a game of endurance and if you
want to win if you want to really see it
through you've got to be able to hang on
for just that little bit longer you've
got to be able to go farther than other
people that's the only way that you're
going to be able to get what you want in
life at the end of the day the math of
that just makes sense
if you let go if you stop you know
there's no way that it's going to come
to you by accident life is not a lottery
life is what you create it is quite
literally what you make of it but as
Hans Sayle says it's not the stress that
kills us it's our reaction to it and
when you're thinking about holding on
and the stress that comes with that when
you're thinking about fighting and being
in a wrestling match and locked in a
battle to create something what we think
about is stress we think about the pain
the difficulty we think about whether or
not we want to endure that thing but it
all comes down to how you frame it it
all comes down to how you think about it
and when you think about becoming that
hero that you want to become creating
that thing that you want to create in
that moment you've really got to ask
yourself how do you think of it
what's the frame of reference from which
you approach it and the people who
really achieve success in their life the
one thing that they're able to do is
really think about how powerful it is
how beautiful it is the thing that they
want and that they can do it that even
if they're not the person they need to
be yet that they can become that person
that an obstacle is merely something
that they'll learn from that failure is
merely a lesson that pain is an
instructor
that frame of reference around the
suffering around the stress when you
have that when you have something that's
empowering it allows you to get back up
it allows you to build yourself to grow
from things and really truly become
capable of holding on for that one
minute more to become the hero that you
want to become but it was a process of
building it was a process of creating
framework it was a process of endurance
we all have to earn that endurance in
our life until the question that you
have to ask yourself right now what are
you doing to earn your endurance and are
you going to be able to hold on that one
minute more but at the end of the day
it's completely up to you
[Music]
as Virginia Satir said problems are not
the problem coping is the problem and I
think that's the thing that really trips
anyone up is when you encounter a
problem the way that you react to it
becomes an even bigger impediment than
the original thing it's the Cascade of
emotions that captures people off-guard
it's the Cascade of neuro chemistry that
people think that they have to react to
that feels so real that they can't
imagine that that reaction is merely
from one perspective that is not the
only perspective and in fact if you
shift the way that you're viewing what
happened to you you could have a totally
different reaction but people don't see
that and the reaction feels like the
manifestation of truth and that's how
people get themselves caught up that's
why
failure become something to be feared
because the failure feels negative it
feels like a loss it feels like a death
because it's the death of the ego it's
the death of the vision of yourself is
capable of something it's the death of
your vision of yourself as perfect as
better than but once you let go of that
once you're able to sidestep that and
see the problem in a whole new light to
see the failure in a whole new light you
can have a breakthrough and that's why
Wendell Phillips said what is defeat
nothing but education nothing but the
first steps towards something
and when you can take that perspective
when you realize that the way that you
look at the world will define everything
about your existence and that you choose
that it's literally a decision that you
get to make to choose the perspective
from which you see something so you can
look at the failure as the death of
something as proof that you're not good
enough as proof that just like people
have told you you're not worthy that's a
perspective and if you take it you're
gonna see the truth of that the truth of
that would be laid bare before you it
will be evident for everyone to see
simply because you chose it but if
instead you choose to see that as a
learning opportunity as a chance to
figure something out to find out why you
failed to get better to identify the
lack in your skill set and to fill that
in through commitment through practice
through discipline to understand what
the human body and mind are designed to
do is change they're designed to get
better so suddenly the failure becomes
an instruction it becomes education and
once you have that then coping suddenly
becomes very easy it isn't the problem
the problem in fact becomes the solution
the failure becomes the thing that's
going to teach the failure is the
instruction that you need to be great to
be worthy to meet better than people
think you are but it all comes down to
your perspective so my friends I beg of
you
she's wisely